Adding Konnect Reference Platform (#783)
Kong/developer.konghq.com: app/konnect-reference-platform/faq.md

    their engineering organization and API delivery process. 

breadcrumbs:
  - /konnect-reference-platform/

related_resources:
- text: Reference Platform - Home
  url: /konnect-reference-platform/
- text: Reference Platform - FAQ
  url: /konnect-reference-platform/faq/
- text: Reference Platform - Kong Air
  url: /konnect-reference-platform/kong-air/
- text: Reference Platform - How-To
  url: /konnect-reference-platform/how-to/
- text: Reference Platform - APIOps
  url: /konnect-reference-platform/apiops/
---

## What is the Konnect Reference Platform?
The [Konnect Reference Platform](/konnect-reference-platform/) is a technical guide for users looking to integrate 
the [{{site.konnect_product_name}}](https://konghq.com/products/kong-konnect) API Management platform into their API delivery process and broader 
engineering organization’s technology stack.

## Who can benefit from the reference platform?
The Reference Platform is designed for software Architects, API platform builders, DevOps engineers, and Service Application 
teams who are looking to implement a Federated API Management platform with Konnect.

## What are the components of the Reference Platform?

> <u>Konnect reference usage</u>: 

Reviewer: The underline is not really a style we use. It usually denotes links.

I'd convert this question into a table like you have on the landing page, and make each currently underlined term a link.

A sample reference implementation of Konnect including organization design and resource configuration. The reference implementation
is deployed via the Konnect Orchestrator.

<u>The Konnect Orchestrator</u>:

> A software tool that reconciles declarative configuration with your Konnect organization(s) and manages APIOps code in a _platform Team_ repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A software tool that reconciles declarative configuration with your Konnect organization(s) and manages APIOps code in a _Platform Team_ repository.
```

<u>Kong Air Example Organization</u>:
A complete example demonstrating the reference platform usage, including team structures, service applications, and automated workflows.

<u>Documentation</u>:
This documentation includes design trade-offs, sample configurations, FAQs, and a how-to guide for utilizing the platform and {{site.konnect_product_name}}.

<u>Service Application Team - Self-Service</u>:
A self-service portal for developer teams to onboard their own services to the platform.

## What is the Konnect Orchestrator?
The [Konnect Orchestrator](https://github.com/Kong/konnect-orchestrator) is a _Go_ based software tool that reconciles a declarative configuration with your 

> Konnect organization and manages APIOps code in a _Platform Team_ repository. The tool can be ran as a single use CLI command or 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Konnect organization and manages APIOps code in a _Platform Team_ repository. The tool can be run as a single use CLI command or 
```

## What are the main Konnect Orchestrator concepts?

<u>Declarative Config</u>:
The orchestrator accepts YAML files that make up its declarative configuration, which it reads and reconciles to Konnect organizations.

<u>Platform Team</u>:
The Platform Team is a special team within KO that represents a typical Platform Team that own the API Platform / API Delivery system 
within a broader engineering organization. KO accepts a distinct Platform Team Git repository configuration where much of the configuration is 
written to and the APIOps processes work from.

<u>Organizations</u>:
KO can manage 1-n organizations which define the intersection of the Developer Teams and their Application Services, to 
Konnect Organizations and the resources defined inside them.

<u>Teams</u>:
Developer Teams / Application Teams

<u>Service Applications</u>:
These are the Service Applications owned by the Developer Teams. Otherwise known as “Backend Services” or “Upstream Applications”

## Where can I find an example of the Reference Platform in action?
The example organization, _Kong Airlines_, provides a fictional airline engineering solution made up of a 

> set of teams and service applications that support common airline concepts (flights, bookings, etc…) and a Platform

Reviewer: ```suggestion
set of teams and service applications that support common airline concepts (flights, bookings, and more) and a Platform
```

> team that manages the API delivery process. The example provides a sample declarative configuration and utilizes the

Reviewer: Is it "Platform Team", "platform team", or "Platform team"?

> team that manages the API delivery process. The example provides a sample declarative configuration and utilizes the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
team that manages the API delivery process. The example provides a sample declarative configuration and uses the
```

API Delivery process in the platform repository. 

[Kong Airlines is available on GitHub](https://github.com/KongAirlines).

## How does the Konnect Orchestrator work?

> The orchestrator follows the below general pattern:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The orchestrator follows this general pattern:
```
Avoid using "above" or "below" positional terms.

> * Read the input declarative configuration from file(s)
> * Manage the APIOps Workflows within the Platform repository by staging Pull Requests that keep API delivery workflow automation up to date
> * Directly adds or modifies Konnect resources in one or more Konnect organizations based on the input configuration
> * Read API Specifications (OpenAPI files) from Service Application repositories and stage them into the Platform repository via Pull Requests
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Reads the input declarative configuration from file(s)
* Manages the APIOps workflows within the Platform repository by staging pull requests that keep API delivery workflow automation up to date
* Directly adds or modifies Konnect resources in one or more Konnect organizations based on the input configuration
* Reads API specifications (OpenAPI files) from Service Application repositories and stages them into the Platform repository via pull requests
```

## What Konnect resources are managed by the Konnect Orchestrator?

> * Teams, Roles, and Users including invitations and user -> team mappings
> * IdP configuration including Konnect Built-in, OIDC, SAML, and IdP Group to Konnect Team mappings
> * Control Planes and Control Plane RBAC policies for managed Teams
> * Developer Portals and APIs including API specifications and API Implementations
> * Analytics Custom Reports
> * Notification Hub configurations 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Teams, Roles, and Users including invitations and user -> team mappings
* IdP configuration including Konnect built-in, OIDC, SAML, and IdP group to Konnect Team mappings
* Control Planes and Control Plane RBAC policies for managed Teams
* Developer Portals and APIs, including API specifications and API Implementations
* Analytics custom reports
* Notification Hub configurations 
```

## What is the specific role of the Platform Team in the Reference Platform?

> The Reference Platform operates off of a central code repository, the _Platform Team_ repository. This is by design, such that organizations
> can on-board application teams without having to "inject" and code or process into the application team code, repositories or engineering workflows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Reference Platform operates off of a central code repository, the _Platform Team_ repository. This is designed so that organizations
can onboard application teams without having to "inject" and code or process into the application team code, repositories, or engineering workflows.
```

All APIOps workflows are stored and execute within the Platform repository. Application team API specifications are read from their repositories
and copied into the Platform team repository for staging, before delivery to {{site.konnect_product_name}}.

In the future, the reference platform may evolve to support a more decentralized approach, where Application teams can own more of the API delivery 
pipeline and take advantage of {{site.base_gateway}} capabilities directly.

## What is the format for the Konnect Orchestrator configuration?
The full [JSON schema for the orchestrator configuration is available in the Konnect Orchestrator repository](https://github.com/Kong/konnect-orchestrator).
The high-level structure of the configuration follows these main sections:

`platform`

The `platform` configuration defines the _platform team_ repository, including git remote and authorization configurations. The platform team
repository is the central repository for API specifications and APIOps workflows and execution.

`teams`

> The `teams` configuration defines the engineering group's developer teams and their application repositories. Every team defined 
> here will correspond to a Konnect Team resource within the organization. Each service application repository defined here will have its 
> API specifications read and staged into the Platform repository. Simple user management can be accomplished in this section if IdP is 
> not utilized. Providing email addresses for teams will invite users to the Konnect organization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `teams` configuration defines the engineering group's developer teams and their application repositories. Every team defined 
here corresponds to a Konnect Team resource within the organization. Each service application repository defined here will have its 
API specifications read and staged into the Platform repository. If not using an IdP, you can use `teams` for simple user management. Providing email addresses for teams will invite users to the Konnect organization.
```

`organizations`

> Each organization defined in the `organizations` section, maps to a Konnect Organization. For each organization, you define 
> authorization configurations and environments. Each environment will result in a set of configured resources with specific naming, 
> metadata, and access control policies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each organization defined in the `organizations` section maps to a Konnect Organization. For each organization, you define 
authorization configurations and environments. Each environment will result in a set of configured resources with specific naming, 
metadata, and access control policies.
```

## What are Environments?

> Environments may be any conceptual grouping of resources the user desires. Typical examples include "dev" or "prod" engineering stages,
> but you may also desire to form environments around business units or products. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Environments may be any conceptual grouping of resources that you want. Typical examples include "dev" or "prod" engineering stages,
but you could also form environments around business units or products. 
```

> Konnect does not natively support the concept of environments. The orchestrator manages environments synthetically by 
> prefixing resource names, applying labels, and setting different access control policies based on well known environment types. 
> The orchestrator currently supports 2 environment types, DEV and PROD. Various resource configuration decisions are encoded into the Environment type, 
> for example RBAC and portal settings. Environments also require a region configuration which must map to a Konnect supported geographic region.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Konnect does not natively support the concept of environments. The orchestrator manages environments synthetically by 
prefixing resource names, applying labels, and setting different access control policies based on well known environment types. 

The orchestrator currently supports 2 environment types: DEV and PROD. Various resource configuration decisions are encoded into the Environment type, 
for example RBAC and portal settings. Environments also require a region configuration which must map to a Konnect supported geographic region.
```

> ## What specific Konnect resource are managed by the Konnect Orchestrator?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## What specific Konnect resources are managed by the Konnect Orchestrator?
```

The Konnect Orchestrator does not manage a straight mapping from the input declarative configuration into Konnect resources. 
Instead, the input configuration is generally an expression of the engineering organization design, and the orchestrator 
maps that to opinionated configurations for the Konnect resources it manages. The following shows the general configuration
of Konnect resources managed by the orchestrator:

* For each configured organization in the `organizations` configuration
    * For every team in the `teams` configuration
        * A Konnect Team is created 
            * For every User in the `users` configuration, a Konnect User is created 
            * Each User is added to the Konnect Team
        * For every environment in the `environments` configuration
            * A Konnect Control Plane is created
            * A Konnect Developer Portal is created
            * For every service in the `services` configuration
                * A Konnect API is created
                * The service specification is added to the API

> 

Reviewer: I don't really understand this. Is this basically a for loop? It's hard to read as-is. I wonder if there's a way to display this as tree structure diagram.
